it may be difficult but try and ignore
the allure of a shiny paint job and look
through the surface
for signs of body filler and bubbling
rust paint work is extremely expensive
to sort out so be absolutely sure in
your mind what you are willing to live
with before parting with your
hard-earned cash there are a lot of
restored scooters out there sadly many
have been quickly spruced up in the Far
East and some have serious defects
lurking under their shiny skin exercise
extreme caution when carrying out checks
on one of these models look around
badges and trim for signs of a cheap
blow over
poor masking out will have left telltale
signs of a job done in a hurry the box
sections under the floor are Russ prone
check the floor edges for corrosion and
accident damage investigate to the metal
work immediately in front of the engine
mounts check the floor on top to paying
special attention to the join with the
central tunnel and around the edges of
the floor runners where corrosion often
starts continue the check back to the
area around the panel mountings which
are prone to rust problems as well at
the front look directly behind the mud
guard for any ripples or dents in the
leg shields which may indicate that the
scooter has had a front-end smash any
damage here could be considered a deal
breaker is the frame may have been
knocked out of alignment there are lots
of other scooters out there make sure
that the side panels are securely
mounted the securing pins can rot off
the panel itself and the locating hole
in the frame can become enlarged over
time accident damage here is common to
these ones are scratched and faded
getting them looking good again would be
expensive there may be a chassis plate
riveted to the frame normally near the
petrol tap lever do not rely on this as
your only identity check as replacement
blank plates are freely
available check the number stamped into
the frame against the scooters documents
mud guards rust at their central seam
when along the front edges replacements
are expensive having them prepared
painted and fitted is most definitely
not headlamp reflectors go rusty which
is an MOT fail make sure that the lights
work if they don't it may be just a
blown bulb but it may also indicate that
the scooter is overcharging which will
be a much bigger problem to sort out
before the PX range arrived most vespers
had six volt electrics some models were
supplied with indicators which the
system struggled to power with any
reliability resulting in them being
removed if originality is important on
an older scooter then tracking down the
right replacements may be tricky seat
covers are prone to splitting luckily
replacement seats come in a wide range
of styles from original to custom and
all at reasonable prices damage like
this is still a good haggling point
though instruments range from the very
basic up to the rather more
comprehensive panel like this one fitted
to a mark 1 t5 if anything is damaged
then the replacement price obviously
Rises in line with complexity some
pattern parts are so poorly made that
they don't work fresh from the box
whether you are looking at a desirable
rally 200 like the scooter in the
foreground here or a workhorse px the
basic problems are the same how is your
potential purchase shaping up so far
you